.TH VPDDECODE 8 "February 2005" "dmidecode"
.SH NAME
vpddecode \- \s-1VPD\s0 structure decoder
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vpddecode
.RB [ OPTIONS ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vpddecode
prints the "vital product data" information that can be found in almost
all IBM computers, and only IBM computers. Available items are:
.IP \(bu "\w'\(bu'u+1n"
\s-1BIOS\s0 Build \s-1ID\s0
.IP \(bu
Product Name
.IP \(bu
Box Serial Number
.IP \(bu
Motherboard Serial Number
.IP \(bu
Machine Type/Model

.PP
Some systems have these additional items:
.IP \(bu "\w'\(bu'u+1n"
BIOS Release Date
.IP \(bu
Default Flash Image File Name

.PP
Note that these additional items are not documented by IBM, so this is
guess work, and as such should not be blindly trusted. Feedback about
the accuracy of these labels is welcome.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR "-d" ", " "--dev-mem FILE"
Read memory from device \fBFILE\fR (default: \fB/dev/mem\fR)
.TP
.BR "-u" ", " "--dump"
Do not decode the VPD records, dump their contents as hexadecimal instead.
Note that this is still a text output, no binary data will be thrown upon
you. ASCII equivalent is displayed when possible. This option is mainly
useful for debugging.
.TP
.BR "-h" ", " "--help"
Display usage information and exit
.TP
.BR "-V" ", " "--version"
Display the version and exit

.SH FILES
.I /dev/mem
.SH BUGS
The lookup table for product names is incomplete. If your system is missing
from the table,
.B vpddecode
will ask you to report. See the
.I AUTHORS
file for maintainer contact information. Your report should include the
product name of the machine, and the \s-1BIOS\s0 build \s-1ID\s0 as given by
.BR vpddecode .
.SH AUTHOR
Jean Delvare
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR biosdecode (8),
.BR dmidecode (8),
.BR mem (4),
.BR ownership (8)
